life cycle
 Every React Component has a lifecycle of its own, lifecycle of a component can be defined as the series of methods that are invoked in different stages of the component’s existence. The definition is pretty straightforward but what do we mean by different stages? A React Component can go through four stages of its life as follows. 
 

Initialization: This is the stage where the component is constructed with the given Props and default state. This is done in the constructor of a Component Class.
Mounting: Mounting is the stage of rendering the JSX returned by the render method itself.
Updating: Updating is the stage when the state of a component is updated and the application is repainted.
Unmounting: As the name suggests Unmounting is the final step of the component lifecycle where the component is removed from the page.
React provides the developers a set of predefined functions that if present is invoked around specific events in the lifetime of the component. Developers are supposed to override the functions with desired logic to execute accordingly.
Initialization: In this phase, the developer has to define the props and initial state of the component this is generally done in the constructor of the component.
Mounting: Mounting is the phase of the component lifecycle when the initialization of the component is completed and the component is mounted on the DOM and rendered for the first time on the webpage. Now React follows a default procedure in the Naming Conventions of these predefined functions where the functions containing “Will” represents before some specific phase and “Did” represents after the completion of that phase. The mounting phase consists of two such predefined functions as described below.

componentWillMount() Function: As the name clearly suggests, this function is invoked right before the component is mounted on the DOM i.e. this function gets invoked once before the render() function is executed for the first time.
componentDidMount() Function: Similarly as the previous one this function is invoked right after the component is mounted on the DOM i.e. this function gets invoked once after the render() function is executed for the first time
 Updation: React is a JS library that helps create Active web pages easily. Now active web pages are specific pages that behave according to their user. For example, let’s take the GeeksforGeeks {IDE} webpage, the webpage acts differently with each user. User A might write some code in C in the Light Theme while another User may write a Python code in the Dark Theme all at the same time. This dynamic behavior that partially depends upon the user itself makes the webpage an Active webpage. Now how can this be related to Updation? Updation is the phase where the states and props of a component are updated followed by some user events such as clicking, pressing a key on the keyboard, etc. The following are the descriptions of functions that are invoked at different points of Updation phase
 componentWillReceiveProps() Function: This is a Props exclusive Function and is independent of States. This function is invoked before a mounted component gets its props reassigned. The function is passed the new set of Props which may or may not be identical to the original Props. 
